The Metamorphosis and The Catcher in the Rye both detail the psychological journeys of their respective main characters, Gregor Samsa and Holden Caulfield. Gregor and Holden are both alienated from their parents, meaning that they do not receive the support necessary through their psychological growth. This alienation prevents them from having a strong, authoritative figure to guide them through periods of change, making them fear change. The fact that Holden and Gregor fear change makes them unstable individuals, as not only do they fear change, they fear the prospect of change; specifically, Holden and Gregor fear the change from childhood to adulthood, as with that transition comes responsibility, and without a good precedent to follow—that precedent being the presence of parents—Holden and Gregor have no knowledge of how to cope with this new responsibility being placed on their shoulders. This is the fundamental point of The Metamorphosis and The Catcher in the Rye: responsibility is a hard burden to shoulder for those who did not have the chance to learn how to cope with it.
	Gregor Samsa’s burden comes from a debt his family owes to his boss at work; with no one else in his household, that being his sister, his mother, and his father, capable of working to pay off the debt, Gregor is forced to work grueling shifts, “getting up [extremely] early… writing up the business [he has] done… [while his coworkers] are just having breakfast” (4). The sheer stress that Gregor endures at his workplace magnifies his perception of the scale of the responsibility he has been forced to undertake to pay off his family’s debt; this, without any helpful guiding figure in his parents, who find it “contrary to expectations” (6) when they find Gregor inside of the house after his supposed departure time, when clearly Gregor is trying his hardest to do the work that his parents have brought on the family in the form of debt. Gregor’s instability in response to this heavy responsibility is an outburst of a need for love and support, as well as a need for sexual interaction (Maslow → Love/Belonging); the picture he made of the “lady done up in a fur hat and a fur boa” (3) is a manifestation of these needs.
	Holden Caulfield is disconnected in the same way Gregor Samsa is disconnected: he is forced to undertake a burden which he is not psychologically capable of handling. His parents sent him off to a boarding school, Pencey Prep, to essentially fend for himself. Holden already had a “lousy childhood… and his parents were occupied before they had [him]” (1). The fact that his parents were occupied means that Holden did not get the attention or the guidance he needed throughout his childhood to cope with the changes and new responsibilities he unwillingly undertakes as he grows. As a teenager in a boarding school, he searches for his own love and support, though he tries hard not to admit it to himself, like when he tells himself “[it] was pretty funny… [when] the whole [fencing] team ostracized [him] the whole way back [to the school]” (3). Holden’s own denial of his need for moral support puts him under more stress than he originally has from the boarding school. The energy he uses to suppress his needs and desires leaves him emotionally exhausted when it comes to dealing with a situation at Pencey Prep.
	As explained above, Gregor and Holden both require support from the people around them to deal with the responsibilities that have been placed on their shoulders; it should be noted that neither character recognizes the fact that they are incapable of coping with their day-to-day lives, and thus make no effort to explain to the people around them that they are breaking down. The cycle these characters go through on their way to emotional “hell” is, unsurprisingly, the same; both Gregor and Holden withdraw into themselves, unable to find the courage to speak out about their breakdown—Gregor due to his hideous form, Holden due to his fear of phonies. While this makes for an interesting comparison, the process of the downfall of Holden and Gregor, the fact that neither character is able to recognize their mental instability throughout the story is intriguing and ironic. The irony stems from the fact that Holden and Gregor are both so afraid of change that they are incapable of changing in the face of danger, which, in the natural world, means certain death. So, essentially, Holden and Gregor’s need for love and support would be such a large change in their lives that they are too afraid to pursue that change, leading to their emotional “death”, and, in Gregor’s case, physical death.
